---
layout: single
title: "About Me"
permalink: /about/
author_profile: true
classes: wide
---

Hi, my name is Atilay Kucukoglu. **I am a researcher and music technology enthusiast from Istanbul, Turkey.** I'm interested in topics such as controllability in music generation, music information retrieval, music generation system design, and user preference modeling.  
\\
My musical adventure began as a guitarist in Istanbul. Once I realized my passion for music, I decided to apply to music school and got into the **Istanbul Bilgi University Music** Program. The program structure was particularly interesting, and I got to learn extensive tonal harmony from counterpoint to invention and fugue, from Beethoven to Bartok and Debussy. I learned to critically listen and how to think about music through the "Thinking Music" course, where we examined texts and manifests of leading philosophers of music such as John Cage and Russolo. We had electronic music and composition classes where we practiced different approaches to compositional thinking. We also had sound engineering classes where we practiced recording, mixing, and mastering. I earned my B.A. in Music from Istanbul Bilgi University in 2022.During this time, I also started to work as a freelance producer and sound engineer for musicians. Collectively, these experiences filled me with a breadth of knowledge about what music truly is and laid a foundation for everything I do in music.  
\\
These experiences led me to pursue a master's degree in **Sound Engineering & Design at Istanbul Technical University’s Center for Advanced Studies in Music (MIAM)**, the leading program for audio engineering in Turkey. During my studies, I continued to practice sound engineering and learn more about music theory. I got to attend many commercial recording sessions as an assistant engineer. My interest in academic research started to grow, but I was not able to find a suitable research area or trajectory for myself. An elective in Audio Programming sparked my interest in sound and music computing. Our professor introduced me to MIR, machine learning, and development communities like ISMIR and NIME. I quickly decided that this was the field I wanted to be a part of and started taking introductory online courses in computer science and programming. I learned Python and CS fundamentals, but I realized I needed time and mentorship to become a potential researcher. This led me to search for another master's degree where I could learn about these topics.  
\\
I was super lucky to be admitted to **NYU Music Technology**, where I have learned about Digital Signal Processing, MIR, and Deep Learning for audio with world-class faculty. I am extremely lucky to be a research assistant at MARL, mentored by Dr. Magdalena Fuentes, and learn from these amazing people. Currently, I'm working on my master's thesis titled "Music User Preference Modeling for Controlling Music Generation". My aim is to finish my master's degree with distinction and continue my studies in a PhD program where I could delve deeper into research in controllability for music/audio generation.  
